[Music]
law enforcement versus national security
confused priorities introduction the
subcommittee identified a number of
cases in which law enforcement
operations and criminal prosecutions
were subordinated to other foreign
policy concerns more often than not the
interference with law enforcement
processes was the result of ad hoc
decisions made at the operational level
of the national security agencies
involved rather than the product of
carefully considered decisions made at
the highest levels of our government
instances in which foreign policy
considerations took precedence over the
war on drugs included the Barry Adler
seal episode law enforcement
investigations into illegal activities
associated with the Contras on the
southern front a narcotics sting
operation directed at a high Bahamian
government official the intervention of
US officials on behalf of the Honduran
general convicted in a narco terrorism
plot and the handling of Panama's
general Manuel Antonio Noriega accounts
of the Bahamian sting and general
Noriega were provided in the Bahamas and
Panama chapters respectively Barry's
seal and the cartel
Barry Adler seal a former narcotics
smuggler was utilized as an undercover
agent by the DEA in a highly sensitive
operation being run against the
Colombian cocaine cartels and officials
of the Sandinista regime in Managua
based upon intelligence the DEA had
received an interest had been expressed
by some members of these sandanista
Directorate and providing a base of
operations in Nicaragua for the cartels
US law enforcement officials had hoped
to entrap both members of the cartels
and sandanista officials and a drug
sting being run by Seale however the
operation was disclosed prematurely by
an
an official who leaked to the press
evidence supposedly collected by seal in
an effort to influence a pending
congressional vote on contra aid law
enforcement officials were furious that
their undercover operation was revealed
and agents lives jeopardized because one
individual in the US government
Lieutenant Colonel Oliver North decided
to play politics with the issue
associates of seal who operated aircraft
service businesses at the Mena Arkansas
Airport were also the targets of grand
jury probes into narcotics trafficking
despite the availability of evidence
sufficient for an indictment on
money-laundering charges and over the
strong protests of state and federal law
enforcement officials the cases were
dropped the apparent reason was that the
prosecution might have revealed national
security information even though all of
the crimes which were the focus of the
investigation occurred before seal
became a federal informant boy so Rosa
and the Contras senior US government
officials intervened with a federal
judge to obtain a reduction to five
years in the sentence for Honduran
general Jose boy so Rosa who is
convicted in 1985 of conspiring to
assassinate president Suazo Cordoba of
Honduras the assassination attempt was
to have been financed by the proceeds
from the sale in the United States of 40
million dollars in cocaine seized in
connection with the plot the other
defendants in the case received
sentences as long as 40 years in
addition officials of the US government
intervened to ensure that voice or OSA
served out his sentence in a minimum
security facility at a US military base
in Florida the officials intervened
because the general was a friend of the
US government and had been of particular
help to the US military in Honduras
according to the admissions of the
United States in the criminal trial of
oliver north quote lieutenant colonel
north suggested that efforts be made on
Boyce o roses behalf
to deter him from disclosing details of
his support of the Contras end quote
these officials seemed unconcerned that
the Justice Department had touted the
conspiracy as the quote most significant
case of narco-terrorism yet discovered
end quote
mr. mark M Richard the deputy assistant
attorney general of the criminal
division for the Department of Justice
was adamantly opposed to these
interventions originally the Department
of State supported the Justice
Department's position in the boy so
Rossa case Richard said that early on
the Pentagon took the initiative in
support of interventions on behalf of
boys or OSA in a deposition before the
iran-contra committee
Richard recalled being called to a
meeting which included among others
Oliver North General Paul Gorman Elliott
Abrams and de Klarich who is
representing the CIA in that meeting
north Gorman Abrams & Klarich all agreed
that boy so Rosa should be accommodated
Richard said he was surprised that the
State Department's position had changed
Richard said he responded by saying
quote look anything we do for this man
seems to undercut our position that we
have repeatedly taken that this is an
international terrorist this is
certainly not consistent with the
position we have articulated throughout
the course of this prosecution that this
man is a serious international terrorist
and should be treated accordingly and
quote Francis McNeil and testimony
before the subcommittee said the
successful intervention on behalf of
boys or OSA over the objections of the
Justice Department undermined President
Reagan's policies in three areas
anti-terrorism anti-narcotics and
support for democracy intelligence
versus law enforcement
despite
and widespread trafficking through the
war zones of northern Costa Rica the
subcommittee was unable to find a single
case against a drug trafficker operating
in those zones which was made on the
basis of a tip or report by an official
of a US intelligence agency this is
despite an executive order requiring
intelligence agencies to report
trafficking to law enforcement officials
and despite direct testimony that
trafficking on the southern front was
reported to CIA officials where
traffickers and suspected traffickers
were mentioned by name in documents
divulged in the course of the
iran-contra hearings the names were
deleted by the authorities charged with
document declassification this deletion
was effected notwithstanding the fact
that a copy of a memorandum detailing
the trafficking activities written by
Rob Owen and sent to Oliver North had
already been widely circulated assistant
US attorney Jeffrey Feldman and FBI
special agent Kevin courier were sent to
San Jose in 1986 to investigate illegal
weapons shipments to the Contras
operating in Costa Rica yet US embassy
officials were not only unsympathetic
with their objectives but also attempted
to dissuade them from interviewing a key
witness in his testimony
Richard Gregory said that the failure of
the State Department to turn over
important materials was jeopardizing the
prosecution in his case against Sarkis
Suk an alien an arms dealer Gregory
testified that the case against general
Noriega could well be jeopardized if US
intelligence agencies failed to come
forward with information about the
generals role in narcotics trafficking
quote it is impossible to know with
certainty in a world where the secret to
conducting intelligence activity is
compartmentalization that is you get
information on a need-to-know basis if a
compartment goes out of whack that is if
they go off on their own wild spree
there is nobody to supervise them and if
it happens that mr. Noriega was working
for a compartment I don't know about and
their superiors in other Department
don't know about there may be a whole
source of information
unknown to the prosecutor end quote
Gregory referring to the CIA went on to
say quote with the Noriega case we have
requested the right to see certain
things I can honestly tell you that I am
convinced that we have not seen even a
small percentage of what we should see
end quote misguided priorities law
enforcement operations directed at
narcotics traffickers should be a clear
government priority law enforcement
agents who are on the front lines day in
and day out of the war on drugs should
be secure in the knowledge that as they
develop evidence on anyone associated
with the drug trade their efforts will
not be jeopardized or terminated for
so-called national security
considerations the most graphic example
of this conflict between law enforcement
and foreign policy priorities is that of
Richard Gregory who for eight years led
the war on drugs in the US Attorney's
Office in Miami he had achieved a
reputation as one of the nation's most
effective and toughest federal narcotics
prosecutors yet Gregory and frustration
resigned his position in January of this
year due to increasing opposition he was
meeting from the State Department to his
investigations and indictments of
foreign officials in an interview with
NBC aired on February 22nd 1989 Gregory
said the opposition from the State
Department made it almost impossible to
pursue top cocaine bosses he stated in
that interview quote I'm finding the
higher we go the further I investigate
matters involving Panama high-level
corruption in Colombia and Honduras in
the Bahamas they are concerned that we
are going to cause a problem in foreign
policy areas and that that is more
important than stopping the dope problem
end quote
Gregory said he felt a lot like the
soldiers in Vietnam felt
quote we are not being allowed to win
this war end quote
the Drug Enforcement Administration has
expressed a clear reluctance to develop
cases against officials of foreign
governments because of that agency's
status as a guest in the countries where
it operates many law enforcement
officials in South Florida have been
discouraged in pursuing cases that lead
to the Bahamas because of past
interventions by the foreign policy
agencies of our government when cases
are brought against those individuals in
the drug trade prosecutors should be
able to rely upon the cooperation of all
the agencies of the federal government
to assist them in indictments and
prosecutions obviously secrecy is
essential to maintaining the security of
certain US government operations however
the concern for secrecy and the need for
the classification of important national
security information should not be an
insurmountable obstacle for prosecutors
and their ability to obtain evidence
critical in waging a more effective war
on drugs in addition the Nicaraguan war
complicated law enforcement efforts
particularly in South Florida at a time
when the illicit narcotics trade
mushroomed out of control a unique
problem surfaced with the privatization
of u.s. foreign policy in Central
America at the direction of Lieutenant
Colonel Oliver North the following
section to this chapter discusses the
nature of this problem the consequences
of privatizing US foreign policy a major
consequence of privatizing support for
the Contras particularly during the
Boland Amendment prohibition on official
US government assistance was that it
attracted numerous individuals and
organizations involved in illicit
activities as revealed during the
iran-contra hearings an extensive
network of private support for the
Contras was established and coordinated
by a handful of government officials
working with private organizations
although it might have been unintended
the
private support network encouraged by
certain officials of the US government
served as a magnet for many individuals
who exploited their activities on behalf
of the Contras as a cover for illegal
gun running and narcotics trafficking
it appears that anyone or any
organization was welcomed as
participants in supporting the Contra
cause the private efforts on behalf of
the Contras attracted a number of drug
traffickers who understood full well the
high priority the US government gave to
the war against Nicaragua testimony
before the subcommittee revealed
narcotics traffickers were particularly
astute and offering to assist the
Contras in an effort to not only protect
their operations but also to avoid
prosecution for their activities as well
this technique is known as ticket
punching in the environment of South
Florida with exiles from around Latin
America plotting a variety of activities
aimed at toppling left-wing regimes
around the hemisphere and with legal and
illegal covert operations commonplace
the opportunities for ticket punching
are endless according to Richard Gregory
of the US Attorney's Office in Miami the
result is a prosecutor's nightmare the
subcommittee repeatedly encountered this
phenomenon as it tried to understand the
relationship between law enforcement and
foreign policy priorities many of the
stories connecting the Contras and drug
trafficking were the result of efforts
by traffickers to establish a cover for
their operations by marrying them to
covert activities and to revolutionary
groups desperate for help
ramon million rodriguez is offered to
assist the Contras was not made until he
was arrested on drug related charges
the offer was an obvious attempt to
reverse the legal proceedings being
brought against him George Morales the
convicted cocaine trafficker was quite
candid that his primary motivation in
providing support to Eden Pastores
organization was his belief that the CIA
would actually intervene to
assist him with his legal problems
unlike Millian Rodriguez Morales in fact
delivered planes weapons and money to
the Contras who were desperate for help
at the time when his relationship with
the Contras developed more fully morales
began to take advantage of the contra
infrastructure to enhance his drug
operations died AXA which was the
headquarters for the Floyd Carlton
Alfredo Caballero cocaine transportation
organization was paid by the State
Department's NHA OH office as a supplier
of humanitarian assistance to the
Contras Campbell yarrow was indicted on
drug charges and entered into a plea
agreement with US authorities Carleton
was one of the key federal grand jury
witnesses in the drug indictments
brought against Panama's general Manuel
Antonio Noriega set Co was the recipient
in 1986 of 185,000 924 dollars in State
Department NH AO office funds for the
transport of humanitarian assistance to
the fdn based in Honduras a 1983 US
Customs Service report stated that quote
set Co aviation is a corporation formed
by American businessmen who are dealing
with Mata and are smuggling narcotics
into the United States
end quote the Matta referred to in the
report is juan matta-ballesteros a major
cocaine trafficker in the region and
wanted by US law enforcement agencies
for the brutal murder of DEA agent
Enrique Camarena in Mexico free
terriffic hosted a puntarenas a Costa
Rican seafood company was owned and
operated by convicted drug traffickers
Luis Rodriguez Carlos Soto and Ubaldo
Fernandez free jury Foucault's received
230 1587 dollars in humanitarian
assistance funds for the Contras from
the State Department in late 1985 and
early 1986 Luis Rodriguez was finally
indicted on September 30th 1988 for drug
smuggling which took place between
November 1980 and
January 1983 Tom Posey Mario Calero Jack
Terrell Frank Castro Joe Adams and Renee
Corbeau were all indicted in August 1988
for Neutrality Act violations that
occurred in 1985 and 1986 the FBI had
extensive investigative files on Corbeau
who readily admitted that he had been
providing weapons to the Contras in
violation of the neutrality Act all
claimed they were acting on behalf and
with the encouragement of the US
government in the Contra war against
Nicaragua the case of Michael Palmer the
most puzzling example of this phenomenon
the subcommittee encountered was the
case of Michael Palmer Palmer's career
as a drug smuggler also included
numerous government associations that
clearly revealed a government working at
cross-purposes Palmer was a former Delta
Airlines flight engineer who went into
the marijuana business with Lee rich and
Michael Vogel in the late 1960s he
participated in the smuggling of
hundreds of tons of marijuana into the
United States over a six-year period
without getting caught in 1984 he flew
to Colombia with a load of money to
purchase a large shipment of marijuana
the plane was trapped on the ground by
the Colombian military and Palmer was
thrown into jail as he sat in jail he
had the chance to contemplate the risks
he faced there is a strong probability
that his organization had been
compromised and that one or more of its
members were working with the police he
risked being identified as the key
figure in a multibillion-dollar drug
ring and faced a possible life sentence
for Palmer the message was clear
get out of jail in Colombia and go to
work for the US government depending on
the story one chooses to believe
Palmer was either released because the
Colombians had no case against him or
because his friends paid off Colombia
officials upon his return to the United
States he told his former colleagues
that he was retiring and promptly looked
for government agencies which would be
able to use his services Palmer's major
assets were an interest in a DC six
which had been involved in drug
smuggling operations an interest in
vortex a minor Miami based air cargo
business and excellent connections in
the drug world within a matter of months
after his return to the United States
Palmer was handling humanitarian cargoes
for the State Department working for the
Drug Enforcement Administration and
informing for an office of the Customs
Service Palmer's decision to become a
government informant was pre tient
because he was in fact indicted in
Detroit for his role in the marijuana
smuggling operation his ploy worked over
the objections of law enforcement
agencies involved in the case against
him Palmer's indictment was dropped as
quote not being in the interest of the
United States and quote throughout
Palmer's career as a government
informant the various agencies using him
did not seem to know that he was
involved in more than one operation with
more than one agency in fact some
agencies were tracking him as a smuggler
unaware that he was doing the smuggling
for DEA Palmer's varied government
operations all involved using the same
airplane the results were chaos and
confusion the DC six which was the
centerpiece of Palmer's operation had
been purchased in 1979 and had been used
to pick up a multi-ton load of marijuana
in Colombia the plane was overloaded and
hit some trees and shrubs as it took off
from Colombia
according to Michael Vogel Palmer's
partner the plane flew north with tree
limbs and shrubs sticking out of the
wings the intended destination was a
farm in Tennessee but because of the
damage the crew had to dump the load of
drugs over a small town in Georgia the
plane landed in Tallahassee and the
occupants fled before the
closed in the plane was seized and left
on the runway at Tallahassee for several
years before it was retrieved from the
government by Palmers lawyer Palmer
invested a substantial sum of money in
rebuilding the plane and gave it to
vortexes Steve herreros in exchange for
an interest in his company our eros had
several air freight contracts for which
he could use the plane when Palmer
decided to become an informant the plane
became an essential part of the plan
DEA wanted him to fly to Colombia where
the plane would be used to entrap a
Colombian smuggling ring the Colombians
agreed to sell Palmer marijuana and a
load was sent back to Detroit
unfortunately Palmer testified the DEA
did not properly coordinate with the
customs service according to Palmer
customs agents in Detroit who did not
know he was working for the government
came close to shooting him and breaking
up the entire operation before the DEA
could find out who the distributors were
and before DEA could complete the sting
at the same time Palmer was flying drugs
as part of a DEA sting the dc-6 was
being used for State Department
humanitarian assistance flights to the
Contras members of the press corps had
become aware of the plane and suspected
that the plane was a key link between
the drug trade and the covert war in
Central America they staked out the
plane and began to investigate Palmer's
background in the meantime Palmer and
his partner were repainting the plane
and changing its tail numbers to make it
less conspicuous each of the tail number
changes and new paint jobs was recorded
by a professional photographer at the
Miami Airport who makes his living
tracking alterations made in the
appearance of junk planes parked at the
airport's famous corrosion corner
unknown to the covert operators or the
DEA the photographer sold copies of the
pictures to the press which was now sure
it found the link between covert
operations and drug trafficking
on one occasion the plane returned from
Central America and was subjected to a
careful search at the Miami Airport the
pilot protested claiming that the search
endangered sophisticated navigation
equipment which had been installed for
government operations he asked that
Palmer be called to the scene to verify
the fact that the plane was being used
on an official government operation the
customs officials were incredulous
because they knew that Palmer was under
indictment in Detroit in a huge
marijuana smuggling case to their
amazement Palmer got the government to
acknowledge the plane as the public
controversy about Palmer GRU the
different law enforcement agencies
involved with the case could not agree
on how it should be handled
DEA wanted his Detroit case dropped
because of his undercover work while
other agencies suspected that he was
continuing his own drug business using
his work for the DEA as cover the
Detroit prosecutor decided to drop the
charges against Palmer a decision which
infuriated Palmer's former partners in
the marijuana business
who all received long prison terms the
case of Frank Kemper the story of Frank
camper is one clear example of how the
privatization of foreign policy could
lead to tragedy camper is a Vietnam
veteran who began working as an
informant out of Birmingham Alabama for
the FBI in the early 1970s in 1980
Kemper decided to establish quote a
private school for people who would be
interested in paramilitary work
end quote which he called the mercenary
school advertising in publications like
soldier of fortune gung-ho and Eagle
camper conducted two-week paramilitary
training courses for individuals and
groups while training these individuals
camper was acting as an informant for
the FBI and military intelligence the
training provided by camper included an
instruction
in assassination techniques the use of
plastic explosives and various bombing
techniques from the beginning the camper
school attracted violent and extreme
elements among campers first students
was Robert Lisbon B who according to
camper was planning a public bombing and
assassination in Miami camper informed
law enforcement agents and the plot was
halted other camper students quote used
the techniques that they had learned
end quote at his school to steal items
from the redstone military base in
northern Alabama
according to camper he founded the
school with two principles in mind first
to quote enable the US government to
gain a great deal of intelligence and
indeed initiate many operations that
were successful to stop criminals and
terrorists end quote
second quote to get and prove out
possible foreigners who would work for
the US government in the future
end quote between 1981 and 1986 camper
received approximately more than $25,000
from the US government in connection
with these operations as campers school
became increasingly well known he found
himself being drawn into contact with
representatives of foreign governments
and with the contra program camper
testified that in 1984 he was approached
by members of the Panamanian Defense
Forces who wanted him to participate in
training programs for PDF anti-terrorism
commando units campers said he learned
during a meeting in Panama that the PDF
was working with the Medellin cocaine
cartel and reported this information to
military intelligence camper claimed
that military intelligence did not
follow up on the information he had
provided them the same year the civilian
military assistance group CMA of Decatur
Georgia began sending individuals who
wanted to fight with the Contras to
train with camper for quote deep
penetration raids into Nicaragua end
quote
these individuals were later expelled
from Honduras camper also trained
members of CMA who went to fight with
the Contras on the southern front
working with John Hall among them were
British mercenaries Peter glimmery and
John Davies who were arrested by Costa
Rican officials in April 1985 after
conducting a raid in Nicaragua kemper
also participated in training members of
an exiled group attempting to conduct a
coup against the Ghanaian government
these individuals were later arrested on
a barge off the coast of Brazil and as
they were heading for Ghana and
imprisoned in November 1984 for seek
nationalists were trained at Kemper
School
the Sikhs asked camper to train them in
guerrilla tactics for a war against the
government of India following the
assassination of Indira Gandhi and the
Indian government's assault on the Sikh
golden temple Kemper advised the FBI of
the Sikhs plans camper testified the FBI
advised him to continue training the
Sikhs as a means of monitoring their
activities camper testified that as a
result of this monitoring the FBI was
able to stop planned assassinations of
Rajiv Gandhi and an Indian State
Minister and that many of these Sikh
terrorists were arrested other Sikhs
trained by the kemper school escaped
according to camper the Sikhs used
plastic explosives they obtained from
his school to blow up Air India flight
182 over the Atlantic in June 1985
killing 329 people campers school was
closed after he was arrested in 1986 on
weapons and racketeering charges in
connection with a Los Angeles bombing
the Frank camp her story exemplifies
many of the perils of the privatization
of foreign policy while being monitored
by the FBI and the military camper was
permitted to Train individuals who
participated in military expeditions
attempted cooze and bombings involving
many nations
all the missions were clearly not
authorized by the US many of them were
tolerated in a period that u.s. foreign
policy makers were seeking to engage the
u.s. in a variety of low-intensity
conflicts using a mixture of private and
public resources the tragic irony is
that campers school was the source for
the training and plastic explosives used
to blow up the Air India plane this
occurred even though the operation was
being monitored by the FBI and
highlights the risks of permitting
private military training camps to
operate in the United States the case of
Richard brenneke certainly one of the
unintended consequences of the
privatization of US policy toward
Nicaragua where the number of
individuals who surfaced claiming to
have been engaged in illicit activities
on behalf of federal agencies supporting
the Contras one such individual was
Richard brenneke brenneke is the
president of a Portland Oregon property
management company according to him in
his spare time he had been involved in
arms deals in the Middle East and
Central America and as a participant in
a number of covert operations brenneke
first came to the subcommittee's
attention through will Northrup one of
the defendants in the Evans Iranian arms
sale case in New York brenneke was the
source for a lengthy New York Times
story on weapons sales to Iran and that
story he recounted his purported role in
the demo Vande project which he said was
the codename for a weapons purchasing
operation run by the Iranian government
some months later brenneke began to
assert publicly that he had participated
in a guns for drug arrangement in
Central America which was officially
sanctioned by the US government as part
of this arrangement he said he had
smuggled drugs into the United States
and arranged weapons purchases for the
Contras in Eastern Europe
as the result of these new assertions
the staff contacted mr. brenneke who
agreed to be deposed the deposition was
taken on April 23rd 1988 in Portland
Oregon in his testimony brenneke
asserted that he had worked for the CIA
as a contract employee in the Middle
East in the 1970s that he became
involved working for Israeli
intelligence and the CIA in the early
1980s he claimed that in the course of
his dealings he was asked by the
Israelis to make arrangements for the
purchase and shipment of Eastern
European weapons to the Contras he said
that after clearing the request with the
CIA he bought the weapons from Omni pole
in Czechoslovakia and had the weapons
shipped to a warehouse in Bolivia he
said that the Israelis then flew the
weapons to Panama and Honduras Bernanke
said that he had worked closely with a
number of Israeli agents active in the
Central American weapons project who
were running drugs into the United
States he said that he was told by White
House officials that the operation was
officially sanctioned and he had
personally discussed the operation with
members of the vice president's staff
the subcommittee then began an
exhaustive effort to determine whether
Brenna Keyes sworn statement had any
basis in fact dozens of individuals whom
brenneke had named in his deposition
were interviewed thousands of pages of
documents from government files relating
to him and thousands more from his files
and other sources were reviewed a
careful analysis of the files shows that
he spent considerable effort
unsuccessfully and trying to become an
intelligence agent and when that failed
an arms dealer the records show that
brenneke was never officially connected
to US intelligence and that he was never
tasked by a US intelligence agency to
gather information
although brenneke produced thousands of
pages of documents relating to proposed
arms deals there is no evidence that any
of them ever came to fruition
Bernanke began telling stories about his
secret life as a spy sometime after he
was stopped by the Customs Service
coming through the Seattle Airport on a
return trip from Europe he was carrying
a briefcase which contained references
to arms deals the Customs Service wanted
to know whether he was involved in
illegal weapons transactions his
response was to offer to become a
Customs informant the subcommittee
confirmed that brenneke applied for a
job with the CIA when he finished school
but his application was rejected he
worked for an international banker and
securities dealer and spent some time in
the Middle East and Central America as
the result of his employment
he developed contacts in the world of
international arms dealers when the
iran-iraq war intensified the
adversaries went into the world market
to buy weapons a number of Bernie Kees
old contacts asked him to join them in
their efforts to sell weapons to both
sides brenneke traveled to Europe and
met with his old contacts and with
representatives of both the Iranian and
Iraqi arms purchasing missions he
traveled to Czechoslovakia and met with
representatives of Omni pol the Czech
Arms Company
although Brenna Keyes files are filled
with evidence of this travel and of
correspondence arranging meetings he did
not produce any evidence of any business
transacted there are no signed contracts
invoices shipping instructions delivery
records end-user certificates whether
real or falsified or financial records
of any kind to support the assertion
that he was an active participant in
arms deliveries to either Iran or Iraq
moreover brenneke did not produce any
evidence that he was reimbursed for any
of the expenses he incurred while trying
to arrange arms deals
it appears that brenneke learned about
the secret u.s. arms deals with Iran
from his business associates who in turn
had learned about them from the Iranians
it also appears that brenneke received
completely fabricated information about
arms deals from undercover agents of the
customs
servus who were setting up a sting
operation and were talking to his
business associates
when direct efforts to arrange the arms
deals failed brenneke began to tell
every agency of the United States
government which would listen that he
could get the hostages in Lebanon
released in exchange he wanted the right
to sell weapons to the Iranians
approaches were made through Marine
Corps intelligence the State
Department's Office of trade and
commercial affairs and the Defense
Department these approaches were all
passed on to the Customs Service which
at that time was in the process of
preparing the Sam Evans case in New York
customs agents interviewed Bernanke
extensively reviewed his records and
decided that he had little to offer he
appears not to have been indicted in the
Evans case because he did not play any
substantive role in the transactions
which were at issue undaunted by his
failure to secure authority to negotiate
with the Iranians over hostages brenneke
began to offer additional proposals to
various federal agencies including the
Defense Department to trade the Iranians
u.s. weapons for soviet-made t-80 tanks
these offers were rejected both because
of the negative assessment which had
been made of him and Brenna Keyes demand
that he be allowed to sell weapons to
the Iranians conclusion they sent it and
how
select committees which were constituted
to investigate the iran-contra affair
described in detail how the Oliver North
operations undermined basic US foreign
policy objectives in their report the
Select Committee noted quote covert
operations of this government should
only be directed and conducted by
trained professional services that are
accountable to the president and the
Congress such operations should never be
delegated as they were here to private
citizens in order to evade governmental
restrictions end quote
the Select Committee observed further
that quote the president set the stage
for welcoming a huge donation for the
Contras from a foreign government a
contribution clearly intended to keep
the Contras in the field while US aid
was barred the NSC staff thereafter
solicited other foreign governments for
military aid facilitated the efforts of
US fundraisers to provide lethal
assistance to the Contras and ultimately
developed and directed a private network
that conducted in north swards a
full-service covert operation in support
of the Contras end quote
the subcommittee members believe it is
important to reinforce the concerns laid
out by the iran-contra committees not
only did the actions of the North
Network undermine our government's war
on terrorism but they also damaged the
war on drugs throughout the decade of
the 1980s the two threats which have
exact today tragic human toll and the
lives of our citizens have been the
actions of the political terrorists and
narco terrorists yet in the name of
supporting the Contras we abandoned the
responsibility our government has for
protecting our citizens from all threats
to their security and well-being those
US officials who were involved in
encouraging and actively pursuing the
participation of private individuals and
organizations and the Contra supply
network must bear the responsibility for
the illegal activities of those who
responded to that call
when accountability is sacrificed in
support of a cause control over those
who exploit the situation for their own
illicit ends is lost as well those US
officials who turned a blind eye to
general Noriega who intervened on behalf
of general Boyce Oh Rosa and who
adamantly opposed the investigations of
foreign narcotics figures by honest
hard-working law enforcement officials
must also bear the responsibility for
what is happening in the streets of the
United States today as Gregory stated so
succinctly in this interview quote if it
was the Communists that were taking over
South and Central America we would have
done something about it
but it's the drug dealers and therefore
they the government don't see that as a
significant priority end quote
the casualty list for the continued
narrow perception as to what constitutes
threats to the national security of the
United States has grown quite lengthy
particularly with the iran-contra
episode it includes the people of the
United States who are threatened on a
daily basis by narcotics related
violence sweeping the country there are
a few neighborhoods in the United States
that are secured from this threat it is
individuals like Richard Gregory an
exceptional public servant who
tirelessly gave of himself to protect
the citizens of this country but who
finally gave up because his own
government would not allow him to win
the war on drugs it is the credibility
of government institutions who turn a
blind eye to domestic and foreign
corruption associated with the
international narcotics trade because of
the perception there are higher foreign
policy priorities which demand our
attention in the end the Contras
themselves became victims of the very
Network created to support them
[Music]
this is our hidden history
you